what is up everybody today's episode is
brought to you by our very own
impact theory university to celebrate
our second anniversary
we are offering almost 40 off our
mindset course
with over 60 hours of video lessons and
monthly
live calls with me this is the best way
to get the skills that i used to go from
sliding towards depression
laying in bed to four to five hours a
day needing
shame to get out of bed just to make a
sandwich for lisa
to building and running my third wildly
successful company
guys i'm telling you these are the
skills that will change your life learn
more and sign up today
at anniversary.impacttheory.com
and i'll see you on the inside take care
what is one change that people could
make to their diet that would have the
biggest impact counting calories
simply does not work at all and people
will say oh but it does it does it does
well if you look at the scientific
studies
it doesn't we are prehistoric
in that when we see food smell food or
talk about food
we can eat more food most people eat in
such a way
that they always experience cravings and
they've never experienced just hunger
without a craving i was like that
a hundred percent and when you clean out
the stuff that's causing the cravings
like wow
i understand that i'm staring at a candy
bar so of course my mouth is going to
water
that doesn't mean i have to eat it the
reason carbohydrates are very
problematic
is that they tend to be processed
so processing removes a lot of these
satiety signals
so even if you've eaten a huge buffet
and somebody says hey do you want a few
sips of
my soda you'd say sure
don't be afraid of healthy fats coconut
oil avocados
olives once you understand your
physiology and your
physical response to just the seeing of
food
you can begin to navigate and control
those urges a little bit
more i know now
that our sleep quality is more important
than our diet and exercise combined
fascinating stuff how much more fat you
lose
when you get optimal sleep it's it's
insane
it's not just physical right the mental
emotional and even spiritual side are
all paralleled and like it has to be a
complete transformation otherwise it's
just going to be a diet that people do
for 30 or 60 days
you can look at yourself in the mirror
and say i
do what i say i'm going to do for me but
if they can
work on the mental emotional spiritual
while they're working on the physical
that's where i feel like people will
really truly be fulfilled because
they realize that it's not just about
being skinny or having a six-pack that
brings them fulfillment
what is one change that people could
make to their diet that would have the
biggest impact and i'll be cheeky and
sneak in and say and also what's one
change that they could make to have
to their workout routine that would have
the biggest impact gotcha so the number
one thing diet
diet wise is don't be afraid of healthy
fats coconut oil
avocados olives implementing these
healthier fats into your diet just
starting off with that we've been
been doing low fat for so long i think
just adding in healthy fats can make a
huge difference with people feeling
you know satiated and fuller longer i
think that's that's the
the easiest thing to do for people right
and people like butter and they like you
know
full fat cheese and so um these types of
healthy fats i think could get
would be an easy good start as far as
workout goes
the easiest thing would would be to do
interval training
so get your heart rate up to a very high
level whether it's walking up the stairs
walking uphill uh running on a treadmill
maybe let's say you
run for 30 seconds you get your heart
rate up whatever it is that you're doing
to get your heart rate up for 30 seconds
that could be jumping jacks right
and then recovering for about 30 seconds
and then repeating that for about 10
minutes
will give you the most bang for your
buck in my opinion i think simplicity
and understanding that we're very
habitual creatures
understanding and leveraging the habit
patterns that we were talking about
leverage your hat don't don't hate your
habits don't be mad at your habit
create new ones and leverage it so
there's sort of a moat around your
castle like you just kind of wake up and
you
make one of these great five healthy
breakfasts and you
don't even think about it anymore i
always call it the beginning of your
healthy meal repertoire because we're
just gonna add to it
right so your friend calls and says
let's go out for mexican and you're like
oh god oh god what am i gonna do how am
i gonna do this
and you kind of do a little bit of
research and you realize that you know
what i'm going to get the fajitas i'm
just going to eat one tortilla and get
the rest of it over salad
i'm going to try that see if it works
right try on that hat see if it works
it works great now i know every time i
go to mexican i've got this sort of
go-to thing that's really yummy and i
like it and it works with my program
so it's like that understanding and
doing things that are right for you
in your life very important
if you're eating real food most of the
time and you're moving your body every
single day
biking or swimming or zumba dancing
ecstatic dance
whatever it is moving your body right
just getting out there moving and eating
real food
you know no one it's super easy to eat
20 cookies right like if you're like
stressed out and you're having these
baked goods in your house
but no one's gonna eat sit down eat 10
20 avocados
right i mean i've never seen anyone do
that because they're stressed out
and i think if we could just get people
to focus on the process
of the habits that make a healthy
lifestyle rather than the results
then i think the results will take care
of themselves the anatomy of a habit
is simple right habits are just very
very simple they are made up of three
distinct things that happen there is a
trigger
or a cue of some sort that kicks that
routine off
that kicks the habit off that habit then
gives you some sort of a reward so you
may know
that it would be best for you to have a
healthy breakfast right
and but your habit isn't that you don't
know that perhaps having
a healthy breakfast would be smart it's
that your bad habit is you wake up
and use the snooze bar three times in a
row making you
you know 15 to 20 minutes late every
single day
so you get up all sudden you're running
late you then
skip breakfast all together you're
completely stressed out you get in the
car you get to the office and there's a
coffee cart with donuts outside you say
i'm just going to get coffee
but as humans anytime we see food smell
food or talk about food we're triggered
to eat it
so you see the donut you don't have any
resolve at that moment
because you've been eating the donut
habitually for days
but it also releases a big fat dose of
serotonin
so you are getting a real feel-good kind
of thing
we back it up and we say like so why is
this happening
okay let's take that alarm clock this
trigger
is this trigger's bad this this lateness
is triggering this this doughnut let's
move this alarm clock across the room or
stop using your phone as an alarm clock
and get an actual alarm clock and put it
across the room so you have to get out
of bed
and let's stop being late because that
extra 10 15
20 minutes allows you to then go to the
kitchen where we
trigger other things right where i put
post-it notes of like okay today's
breakfast is x y and z so you don't have
to think
you just have to start to create this
new pattern once you
do something about three to five times
it
begins to become this new fledgling
habit
and it's not as painful i think in that
anatomy of
of habits i think no one ever has talked
about the emotional
difficulty that ensues from changing a
habit
as well i just i like to tell people to
be aware that there will be
so many emotions when you try to change
something that's so comfortable and you
don't have to think about
you will be mad you'll want to stomp
your feet you'll feel
angry you'll feel sad you'll feel you
know all of this anxiety
it's just that your body wants so badly
to not have to think
about these sort of less than important
decisions
that it feels very painful but if you
will repeat those things
as i say three to five times they become
this fledgling habit and you just need
to sort of fan the flames of that habit
soon enough that becomes the comfortable
thing and all of a sudden
breakfast is knocked out like all of a
sudden you're like oh gosh i've got the
stuff in the house i'm eating breakfast
every day i'm not getting over hungry
i'm
not eating the doughnut that starts to
lead to actual weight loss
you know what i had learned in medical
school was all about sort of calories
and calories out sort of uh
thing but the more i looked into it one
it's a very very um
unsuccessful way to lose weight counting
calories simply
does not work at all and people will say
oh but it does it does it does well if
you look at the scientific studies
it doesn't every single study that's
looked at sort of
say you know trying to restrict calories
leads
to at best a couple of pounds of weight
loss
over like eight years so you acknowledge
that if you
if you take calories out of somebody's
diet long enough they are going to get
lean regardless of
anything else so where is where
does that paradigm break down in reality
and is it just
willpower that people aren't sticking to
it or is it something else
well it's something else and the whole
point is that
it's not the number of calories it's
what your body
does with those calories because if you
take 100 calories if you eat a cookie
for example you take 100 calories
your body has a decision to make do i
store that as body fat
or do i burn it for energy and say
increase body heat generation for
example
and that's the basal metabolic rate
that's the number of calories that your
body uses
uh in a day so which your body does so
for that same 100 calories
you can either become fatter or you can
have a bit more energy during the day
and which one your body does
really depends on the hormones that are
associated
with the foods that you're eating and
that's the real key because if you
simply cut calories and this is the way
that
you know i was taught and everybody was
taught you simply cut the fat
eat less fat because fat is very dense
in calories
you get less calories and therefore your
body
is going to lose body fat but that's not
necessarily true
if you eat 500 calories less your body
could simply decide
to burn 500 calories less and you won't
lose any body fat and it's not a matter
of thermodynamics because that's
that whole idea that it's just about
thermodynamics assumes
that your basal metabolic rate remains
absolutely rock stable that is if you're
using 2 000 calories a day
today you go on a diet you'll still use
2 000 calories a day but you won't we
know we've known that for at least 100
years of
basic research that your body will
actually use less
fewer calories so cutting 500 calories a
day which has been the standard device
is very unsuccessful because if you
don't change the hormonal system in your
body
the the in different foods contain
different hormonal instructions
your body could simply decide to burn
500 less and you will not lose body fat
so it's
simply false to say if you cut 500
calories
a day down you'll lose a pound of body
fat a week
it's actually not true in any
way shape or form it's not the
total number of calories that's
important it's what your body does with
those calories and that depends on
hormones
and in fact everything in our body runs
on hormones those are the instructions
that we give to our body as to what to
do
so everything your body does or doesn't
do depends on hormones those are the
sort of
mediators do you feel stuck hopeless
frustrated or even just lost do you feel
capable of
more but you're not sure how to get
there well if that's how you feel trust
me i've been
right where you are at and now i want to
help
my impact theory university mindset
course is a digital learning platform
that will help
you strengthen your skill set to get
over
any negative self-talk and discover the
power of a growth mindset
you're also going to have access to a
global community of other people that
are developing a growth mindset
fellow students like you and this
includes student-led accountability
groups
virtual monthly meetups book club and
a whole lot more and to celebrate our
second anniversary i cannot believe
we've been doing this for two years
it has been amazing i'm offering my
entire mindset course
complete with live coachings from me for
almost
40 off just go to anniversary.imp
to learn more and sign up and i will see
you guys
on the inside take care
coming out of the weight watchers world
right which is a low-fat
almost no-fat diet and i started to
really disagree with it about five years
ago and
i'm trying to to help the weight
watchers members who've been
stuck in this mentality sort of gently
teach them about moving into high-fat
foods and not fearing them because you
know i get to work with these people
face to face this is real like people
are stuck in the 80s i'm not kidding
like they're stuck and they're like
where are my snack wells man
like i'm like you shouldn't be eating
that like how do i move you so
yeah this is a very gentle movement
um and fluidity and in eating the things
you love and learning to manage the
things you love
is the key like that is like for me i
drink wine
like i drink wine and yes i've i've
definitely fallen on my face with that
literally more than you know i've had my
issues
learning to manage it but i came up with
a personal system
that really works right like i don't
have it in the house
before i can have a glass of wine i have
to have a glass of seltzer in between
every glass of wine i have to have a
glass of seltzer
that spreads out my drinks now that's
habitual
if pizza is your thing if you make it
taboo over here it's now
bad right what do we what happens when
something's bad and we feel guilty or
shameful over eating it
we're gonna highlight that reward system
we're gonna go overboard with it
so i'm trying to get people to say like
okay i am going to look at my week and
on friday night we are going out for
pizza and i'm going to have it but i'm
going to have a salad
first right i'm going to do some
behavior i'm going to shift
some behavior around that food to see
how that
impacts me i may still fail not fail
it's a terrible word but
i may still not do as well as i was
hoping i would like my mimosa
day but i learned something
and i i'm gonna keep chipping away at
this thing that has become
something bigger than food right that is
now bigger that pizza is now not just
pizza
it's like it means so much more so
you've got to kind of chip away at that
and try different behavior around it
if you can start to navigate this very
dangerous environment that we live in
and say like okay
i understand that i'm staring at a candy
bar so of course my mouth is going to
water
that doesn't mean i have to eat it once
you understand your physiology and your
phys
physical response to just the seeing of
food
you can begin to navigate and control
those urges a little bit
more
why are carbohydrates more quote unquote
problematic when it comes to
storing fat the reason carbohydrates are
very problematic
is that they tend to be processed
so processing removes a lot of these
satiety signals
so even if you've eaten a huge buffet
and somebody says hey do you want a few
sips of
my soda you'd say sure no problem
because
they don't activate your satiety
mechanisms and same for like a cookie
you could easily eat a cookie after
after you're full from dinner where you
would not eat another you know pound of
steak
so it's it's a bit more complex because
there's multiple interacting hormonal
systems that regulate how we respond
protein doesn't seem to be nearly as bad
even though it has a lot of insulin
effect it has probably a lot of these
other hormonal effects
that are just as important and really
stop us from eating
just like if you were to eat steak and
eggs in the morning a lot of fat a lot
of protein it tends to keep you more
full than if you're to eat white bread
and jam
you eat that and then at 10 30 you're
looking for a low-fat muffin
for example and and this is uh one of
the things
which i always say is like when you're
thinking about weight gain weight loss
you really have to think about
hormones because it's really a hormonal
imbalance not a caloric imbalance
because
the calories on all these foods can
actually be exactly the same
um and that's why i'm not you know not
all carbohydrates are
bad for you like clearly there have been
many many
um societies that have lived
primarily on carbohydrates yet if you
measure the insulin response they're
actually quite
good so something like that they did a
study in catawba for example which is a
south pacific island and they measured
their diet and there's about 70
carbohydrates but natural carbohydrates
and they weren't eating all the time
then when they measured their insulin
their insulin level was
below the fifth percentile of a
reference sort of swedish population
so that means that even though they're
eating a lot of carbohydrates their
insulin levels are still very low so
there's lots of things not only the
foods that you eat
but also the frequency which with you
eat them
plays a really important role and the
amount of processing that goes into it
and you can see that effect
in something like the glycemic index
where when you eat white bread
things just spike way up but if you're
to eat beans which is all carbohydrate
the glycemic index is much much much
lower and most natural foods are like
that you don't
see that huge spike that you get so the
processing
of the carbohydrates makes it especially
problematic because it is a fuel source
for our body that our body is able to
use very easily
and it's highly refined so that you
don't have any satiety and
then you're getting it sort of absorbed
very quickly because you removed all the
fiber you've removed all the fat
and that's you know that's that's sort
of what goes into it but
focusing on the hormones is really
important because it leads you away from
focusing on something like calories
the only implication of focusing on the
hormones as opposed to calories
is that some foods are more fattening
than other foods
that's really the only implication it's
like boy if you were to ask your
grandmother or great-grandmother you
should say
well duh i hope you didn't have to go to
university to learn that
of course some foods are more offending
than other foods
like cookies are fattening like anybody
could have told you that
anybody with an ounce of common sense
would have told you you don't get fat
eating broccoli
like these are just like things that we
take for granted that we should know
but you get so people get so so focused
on oh it's all calories it's all
calories that they say
ice cream is as fattening as salmon
it's like no obviously not if you've
ever lived
you know in on this earth you would know
that
ice cream and salmon are not equally
fattening for the same amount of
calories that's just
common sense
a lot of people mix up the metabolic and
the cognitive and the health benefits of
fasting
with the self-control benefits and they
try to mix them up
and the truth of the matter is that you
and i are pretty fortunate you know
we've
had companies that have done well and we
don't have
to worry about getting up driving for an
hour in traffic
our kids are now staying at home with
you know two kids hanging off each arm
and just a huge amount of chaos oh and
on top of that i'm just gonna fast today
even though i'm metabolically not really
in good shape
and what's going to happen is you'll be
just like me when i weigh 300 pounds
you're going to be hypogly you're
going to be hangry you're going to yell
at your kids you're going to yell at
your boss
and it's not going to be a good day and
you're going to say basically f
fasting this is stupid it doesn't work
but
you don't have to do that you don't have
to experience pain and hunger
to get the benefits of fasting and to go
into fasting
and after 10 plus years of recommending
this in my
my writing and 15 years of practicing
this what you find out is that
there are things that you can do in
literature that don't
trigger the two things that break a fast
what breaks a fast is having
sugar or carbohydrate that raises your
insulin so if you keep insulin
low and your blood glucose won't change
much except for based on your adrenal
adrenal function if you do that and you
don't
eat protein which impacts a whole
different set of enzymes you're getting
the benefits of fasting and now some
people are already up in arms going
you can't have 5 000 calories of fat no
you would get disaster pants if you did
that
but you can have small amounts of this
and the evidence i have for this is
called
number one bulletproof protein fasting
which has been practiced since
2012 when i wrote about it and this is
you eat less than 15 grams of protein
during a day but you eat carbs and you
eat fat and magically autophagy turns on
in studies you can do that so i've
always thought of fasting as you
put nothing in your mouth that isn't
exactly
h2o that anything beyond maybe
i recently broadened my stance to
include
salt just normal tablespoons that's
pretty important
if you told me i had to fast i had been
like no like i'm not going to
i'll go into starvation mode and it's
going to suck and then i won't be able
to do my job and you know i'll act like
a jerk and all that stuff
that message is playing super loud for
everyone who's got extra
pounds and then they have this desire to
fast but then you feel like a failure
because the automated system in your
body wants you to eat
and you don't know how to deal with it
so the deal is i'm going to put you in
charge
that that's what's going on here and so
all of the bad things that you think
about fasting won't happen what's gonna
happen is you're gonna save time
and you're gonna feel better than you do
today and you'll never be hungry and
then like okay
i'm gonna try this once i think you're
full of crap and they almost always
start with a fasting hack
there's a reason that there's been
several hundred million cups of
bulletproof coffee
and people lost a million pounds on the
bulletproof diet it's because
when they had that fat in the morning
they were intermittent fasting
they just didn't feel hungry and for the
first time in their lives when lunchtime
came around they're like
i guess i could eat instead of the way i
used to be which is like
what's for lunch what's for lunch tacos
you know that whole voice
it just shuts up and oh my god it's so
liberating
yeah it really does change your
relationship to hunger that was the
thing that i could never quite get
people to understand about ketosis
specifically and it's not like you're
not
hungry it's that it doesn't have a grip
on you
which is very very different
it's because there's two things that we
confuse one is a craving and the other
is hunger
and hunger is the sense that you know
what it's time to eat
sometime soon but i could wait a while
and the craving is if i don't eat right
now someone's going to die whether it's
me or someone else
and most people eat in such a way that
they always experience cravings and
they've never experienced just hunger
without a craving i was like that
a hundred percent and when you clean out
the stuff that's causing the cravings
like wow the experience of lunch is so
different
what's the ideal split for you the ideal
split
is whatever you'll do and 16-8 is great
but for especially in hours of not
eating and then i eat however much i
want in an eight hour window or do you
put limitations in the eating window you
can eat as much as you want during the
window
of twinkies uh you know you can and
you'll still get benefits to be
perfectly honest you'll just get more
benefits if you eat good stuff
during the window and that's the other
thing okay maybe you don't want to go
grass-fed only maybe you don't want to
eliminate french fries from your
universe
okay fine intermittent fasting will help
everybody even on a complete crap diet
however you'll be more hungry during
intermittent fast if you eat crap
so you got to deal with that and ideally
what you're eating
after you break your fast you can have
carbs and not have carbs but don't have
sugar
don't have seed oils and eat grass-fed
meat or don't eat meat
and if you follow those basic principles
and there's
other nuances in there what you find is
that you feel really good
and the next morning you wake up and
you're not ravenous
and you're like oh yeah i don't even
want breakfast
and that's a very liberating thing
because if we're spending
so many of our thoughts every day on
food food food and then you just aren't
hungry
it really changes things so i want
millions of people to say i'm going to
try this basic thing i'm not going to
worry about getting my diet perfect i
might make a few changes
but i'm just going to learn how to
intermittent fast and
what i don't want them to do is what a
lot of the fasting community does where
it's all about the fast and you know
every month i'm going to fast for a week
and what you end up doing is you get
people who become
they basically burn out their adrenals
and so women
see sleep problems as the first symptom
that they're overdoing it
and then they see hormonal problems in
their monthly cycle and then see hair
loss and hair thinning
guys same thing but it's usually two to
four weeks out for women first is sleep
problems then you
wake up and there isn't a kickstand and
then
you that took me a second it got there
yeah
and then after that you can see her
thing as well and this is from excess
cortisol
because you overdid it and you can see
the same thing from just being keto for
three months straight right that's why
i've always recommended cycling because
i made all these mistakes
when i was learning about all this stuff
it was just very early days
and and so how do you make this
sustainable and the truth is
fasting the same way every day is bad
for you because it doesn't lend
your body the idea of metabolic
flexibility it's like oh i live in a
world where there's almost never enough
food
so have breakfast every now and then at
least you know saturday morning have
breakfast with your family
and you can have a keto breakfast or you
can have the gluten-free waffles
whatever you want you should be able to
handle that
just don't eat bad oils and over time it
takes about two years to replace half
your cell membranes the oil in those
membranes
over time you'll become more and more
metabolically flexible because your
cells work better
but if while you're intermittent fasting
you're still eating a ton of junk food
you won't get that benefit but you'll
get many other benefits of fasting
you're still going to lose weight you're
still going to have
an improved blood sugar profile but not
as good as if you made a few changes in
the diet so this is something everyone
can do
that's cheaper and more convenient than
what you do in the morning right now
i know now that our sleep quality is
more important than our diet and
exercise combined
and what it does for our health and also
literally our physical appearance
fascinating stuff how much more fat you
lose
when you get optimal sleep it's it's
insane when we're talking about
how sleep influences your body
composition i think everybody needs to
know this
there was a this study really blew my
mind and this was done at the university
of chicago
and they took people and they put them
on a calorie restricted diet
kind of typical stuff again i'm taught
in college to see the impact on weight
loss
when they're sleep deprived or getting
enough sleep all right so they put the
people
on this particular diet monitor
everything one phase of study they're
getting eight and a half hours of sleep
all right and then they track all their
metrics another phase of the study
same exact diet same exercise they don't
change anything else but now they sleep
deprive them
and they take away three hours of sleep
so now they're getting five
and a half hours of sleep versus eight
and a half hours of sleep at the end of
the study they found that when
individuals were well-rested
they burned 55 more body fat
just by getting more sleep and so the
question is
how does this happen melatonin when i
talked about this a little bit earlier
it's not just that it's involved in
sleep it's also involved in fat loss
and this study it was done in the
journal pineal research
found that melatonin production helps to
increase your body's
mobilization of something called brown
adipose tissue
right this is a type of fat that burns
fat all right the reason that it's brown
is that it has more mitochondria
so it's very energy dense right these
mitochondria are just for people who i'm
sure people have heard of this
but it's like these energy power plants
in your cells that are creating the
energy currency of your body like how
you experience energy the energy
exchange
something called atp and so when you are
producing adequate melatonin you're
producing
immobilizing adequate amounts of brown
adipose tissue which just puts you in a
metabolically advantaged state all right
but if you're not getting the melatonin
production
which you've got to meet two
requirements number one you need a
biological night
so that means this could actually be
during the day but it's a consistent
cycle of when it gets produced
but the other requirement needs to be
met that you need darkness
your body produces melatonin exclusively
in darkness
and so that's one also how do you how do
they get that body fat change
hgh production which we talked about too
human growth hormone is
muscle sparing and it's a big driver of
energy it's also known as a youth
hormone
kids have an insane amount of hgh being
produced
this is why they have so much energy we
have a pretty sharp decline in our
production right around 18 to 20.
but my argument is that around 18 to 20
we
generally in our culture like we leave
the house we might go to college
that kind of thing and we no longer have
structure we no longer have rules
and we're not going to produce as much
hgh
transformation is so much more mental
and emotional than people think and if
you've never been overweight
mostly what you can relate to is the
physical side of weight loss right eat
less and work out
you know that right you got that you've
lived that but the mental emotional side
you haven't lived that until you've kind
of been down this path and so for me my
eyes were opened
i realized just how wrong i was with
trying to help people right
and did you mean your strategies were
actually bad because you didn't
understand them
they weren't bad they were just
incomplete they were just focused on the
physical so if someone was struggling
with
their transformation i'm like okay let's
change up your macros change up your
calories change up your workouts
that's the missing component right
that's what i i focus on because that's
all i knew
rather than trying to help them on the
mental and emotional side which is what
people struggle with right i think
people it's not so much a lack of
knowledge
right people know they need to eat
healthy and work out it's
it's the application on the mental
emotional side and the consistency of
living that lifestyle over
over time and that's where people
struggles is maintaining as a lifestyle
change which is more up here
than it is in the gym or in the kitchen
so i want to
really define what you mean by mental
and emotional
so what is it that people are struggling
with an attachment to
food the emotional reward of eating like
what is it
yeah and it's different for each person
the thing that i realized was
was how powerful the emotional
connection to food really is whereas
before i'm like look it's not that hard
you just
you know you stop eating the junk food
put down the soda you go to the gym
every day
what's wrong like it's not that hard
until i lived it
even even though it was only for just
six months when i
switched and tried to lose the weight
that emotional connection to food was
way more powerful even for me as a
trainer someone who lived their whole
life healthy
and my body went through those
withdrawal symptoms right almost like a
drug addict
i won't say i was addicted some people
are truly addicted but for me
just being aware of how powerful that
emotional connection to food really is
what do you do when you have cravings or
you know when you when you eat your
emotions when you're
sad or you're happy we celebrate or we
had a stressful day so we're like you
know what i deserve wine and chocolate
tonight because i had a stressful day
so how do you help people through that
so i grew up in a morbidly obese family
so i know exactly
how people can find comfort and or
celebration
in food how do you help them
dive into that like do you get like
psychological and
and actually almost like a therapist
walk them through that stuff
so there's obviously a physical
component of transformation so that you
help them
with the physical side but i think you
know it's like 10
that 90 help them with the mental
emotional side and how i do that
is putting them in support groups right
so it's not just me because
i'm still a fit guy it's putting them in
a support group where they it's a safe
place for them to share their struggles
their successes their failures
and receive that encouragement and the
empathy that love
and that people letting them know that
they're worth it to continue to fight
for their health i think that's
the majority of people that struggle
with their health some people really
don't feel like they're worthy and how
do you
convince someone that they are worthy i
still don't know it's it's still
up to them it has to be their idea i
can't tell someone they're beautiful
they have to truly believe that they're
beautiful they have to truly believe
that they're worth it
it's you know hope that by telling them
and putting them in a group where other
people are telling them as well
um that they will find that inner
motivation and inspiration and kind of
like you know inception to come up with
that idea of themselves like maybe i am
worthy maybe
you know i can do hard things the health
and fitness industry in my opinion
hasn't used this fully yet and that's
kind of what my hope is with fit2fit fit
is to use empathy as a tool
people are going to be more willing to
listen to you know their trainer or
coach
if that person has that empathy and can
really come down to their level walk
in their shoes a little bit and really
understand where they're coming from and
then they'll
be more willing to listen to the advice
that you have and the physical tools or
hacks that you have to
help them along their their journey i
love in the book how you talk about
that exercise is really about exercising
the mind even more than it is about
exercising the body i think that's so
astute and i think that people
really um miss that a lot and going back
to the
notion of earning credibility with
yourself what does that process look
like
yeah we are all day making promises to
other people right
i have children and you know if i tell
my child that we're going to i'm going
to
show up for them you have to believe i
would literally walk across fire
like i would walk across fire for that
child but
what i realized was i wasn't ever doing
the same
loving thing back to myself i had become
completely disposable i was you know
making a promise and then breaking that
promise to myself
which made me not trust or love myself
because would you trust or love an
external person who continually
broke their promises to to you so
establishing integrity with yourself
becomes probably one of the greatest
things you will ever do
you're going to gain life skills that
that make your work better and your
family life better and your love life
better
because once you can look at yourself in
the mirror and say
i do what i say i'm going to do for me
for example like is on a physical
transformation they're trying to get
healthy
if they have these small wins in their
life right like
i did my first burpee or i did my first
push-up or pull-up or
you know i ate healthy for a whole day
um these
senses these small things of
accomplishment help
build that confidence of maybe i can do
hard things i recently had this guy from
nashville come out
to work with me you know he started out
600 pounds he's been doing keto
intermittent fasting is
down to 450 pounds and the thing that
gravitated him to me and my brand was
the the whole empathy thing
and understanding where he's coming from
um because he felt judged by
by other people and so he's like drew
only want to work with you we
took him to this place called jim jones
in salt lake city and they've trained
the cast of 300 and they train
um superman um and so these celebrities
and i'm like okay we're going here
and he was like scared to death he's
like dude you're trying to kill me i'm
like no
i'm not gonna kill you like i understand
that we're gonna start out slow but um
you know i had him do modifications to
the things that we were doing in the
workout and
it was hard for him but at the end of
the day they drew like he started crying
he's like drew
like this was the best thing for me like
being able to do you know
ball slams like you guys and being able
to do like modified push-ups he's like i
haven't moved my body in in years and
i think after he came out here like he
was super confident and and i had him
say these
positive affirmations to himself like i
can't do hard things as he's doing the
workout
i can do hard things as he's doing
farmers carries and wanted to give up
but he pushed harder
and if i can get him to believe that he
can do hard things even though it's
small at first
then it's going to help motivate him and
push him you know when he tries to do
something that's like
oh that's impossible there's no way it
could do that but now he's like maybe i
can do that
what would you prescribe to them to do
to show them that they can do the hard
things to begin building that self-worth
put out these mini challenges throughout
the month like okay you guys
this month we're going to focus
sometimes as a physical thing but other
times it's like
hey guys for 30 days i want to challenge
you to do
maybe three to five positive
affirmations every single day and all
you're saying to yourself is
i can do hard things or i am worthy or i
love myself
and i'm proud of who i am it's not a
direct um
you know cause of weight loss but if you
can uh set yourself up for this win
that's gonna help you set set that's
gonna help set you up for these other
wins down the road when it comes to
the workout you're gonna do this month
or sticking with whatever diet you're
trying to do
for that month because then you realize
man i can do hard things even if
you don't believe it at first and that's
the thing people really don't believe
positive affirmations at first because
they've
had 30 40 years of negative self-talk
and now you're trying to tell them
you know just say these things out loud
to yourself words have
power and they can actually change your
beliefs and they can actually change you
at the cellular level the more you say
them consistently so
i think there's something to saying
positive words
about yourself to yourself every single
day and so that's that's
one thing that i do in these private
facebook groups to build that confidence
and
and convince that person that they can
do hard things if i remember the first
time i
said a positive affirmation i had
goosebumps and i
almost started crying like and um for me
like a tough dude it was weird so for me
just kind of telling you my own
testimony of this it's changed my life
back then i focused so much on the
physical aspect of weight loss or just
transformation in general but now i've
been doing this for years i realized
like that's what we're missing in the
health and fitness industry is
it's not just physical right the mental
emotional and even spiritual side are
all paralleled and like it has to be a
complete transformation otherwise it's
just going to be a diet that people do
for 30 or 60 days
but if they can work on the mental
emotional and spiritual while they're
working on the physical
that's where i feel like people will
really truly be fulfilled because
they realize that it's not just about
being skinny or having a six-pack that
brings them fulfillment right you could
have the perfect body but so many people
with perfect bodies
are miserable inside and they hate
themselves still why because they don't
take care of the mental emotional and
spiritual
and they have to all be taken care of
otherwise they'll atrophy like you said
and you'll you'll be
you'll find out that your life is is out
of balance in a way
what are some other things that you
would have people do
as sort of a a part of just like your
regular routine
uh daily gratitude list and
what i mean by that is is looking around
you and being grateful for what you have
now
rather than like oh i'll be happy when i
reach my first million dollars
i'll be happy when um you know this or
that happens in business
i think a lot of people do it wrong
though they you know just like with
physical transformation they're like
i'll be happy when i meet this goal and
then i'll celebrate
i think that's where people struggle
when people suffer because they
get unhappy because they're not there
yet right and then they get there and
they're like
well that wasn't it what is it now like
they're looking for something else some
kind of outside source of
happiness when in reality you can create
it inside you know you can
choose to do it it's hard it takes
rewiring your brain it doesn't happen
overnight
but um i promise you that you know if
you can do things like a great
daily gratitude list every single day
that's gonna uh help you be fulfilled in
the here and now while you're working on
a better version of yourself
i hope you guys enjoyed this episode
which was brought to you by our very own
impact theory university do not miss out
on this special second anniversary deal
of almost 40
off our mindset track this is a savings
of 100
on 60 hours of classes plus
live coachings from me and access to our
massive community of like-minded fellow
students
just go right now to
anniversary.impacttheory.com
to sign up and i'll see you guys on the
inside take care